LTR documentation (#8336)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _search-plugins/ltr/feature-engineering.md

---
layout: default
title: Feature engineering
nav_order: 40
parent: Learning to Rank
has_children: false
---

# Feature engineering

> The section guides you through some common feature engineering tasks that come up when developing a learning to rank (LTR) solution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Common feature engineering tasks that you may encounter while developing a learning to rank (LTR) solution are described in the following sections.
```

## Getting raw term statistics

> Many LTR solutions use raw term statistics in their training. Some examples of these statistics include the following: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many LTR solutions use raw term statistics in their training, such as the following: 
```

- **Total term frequency (`raw_ttf`):** The total number of times a term appears across the entire index.
- **Document frequency (`raw_df`):** The number of documents a term appears in.
- **Term frequency (`raw_tf`):** The number of times a term appears in a specific document. 

> - **Classic IDF (`classic_idf`):** The Inverse Document Frequency (IDF) calculation, which is log((NUM_DOCS+1)/(raw_df+1)) + 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Classic IDF (`classic_idf`):** The Inverse Document Frequency (IDF) calculation `log((NUM_DOCS+1)/(raw_df+1)) + 1`.
```

> The OpenSearch Learning to Rank plugin provides a `match_explorer` query primitive that can extract these statistics for you, as shown in the following example: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Learning to Rank plugin provides a `match_explorer` query primitive that can extract these statistics for you, as shown in the following example: 
```

```json
POST tmdb/_search
{
    "query": {
        "match_explorer": {
            "type": "max_raw_df",
            "query": {
                "match": {
                    "title": "rambo rocky"
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> This query returns the highest document frequency between the terms `rambo ` and `rocky`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The query returns the highest document frequency between the terms `rambo ` and `rocky`. 
```

You can use operations such as `max`, `min`, `sum`, and `stddev` with the statistics to get the information you need.

### Term position statistics

> You can prepend the `type` with the desired operation (`min`, `max`, `avg`) to calculate the corresponding statistic across the term positions. If the terms are note present in the document, then the result will be `0`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can prepend the `type` with the desired operation (`min`, `max`, `avg`) to calculate the corresponding statistic across the term positions. If the terms are not present in the document, then the result will be `0`. 
```

The available statistics include the following:

> - `min_raw_tp` (minimum raw term position): This statistic finds the earliest position of any search term in the document. For example, with the query `dance monkey`, if `dance` occurs at positions [2,5 ,9] and `monkey` occurs at [1, 4], then the minimum is 1.                                     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `min_raw_tp` (minimum raw term position): This statistic finds the earliest position of any search term in the document. For example, with the query `dance monkey`, if `dance` occurs at positions [2, 5, 9] and `monkey` occurs at [1, 4], then the minimum is 1.                                     |
```
